In the previous video, we already configure
the ip address of all router, server, and pc.
Now in this video, we are going to configure
routing between Google and ISP.
In this case, we are going to use BGP. Remember that bgp is
used to connecting between autonomous system.
So let’s say google is in autonomous system
1, and ISP is in autonomouos system 2.
Let’s start with google, router
bgp 1, let’s define the neighbor,
in this case the neighbor will be ISP, so
neighbor and then the ip address of ISP,
which is 10.10.10.2 remote-as 2, so this
is the autonomous system number of ISP.
Next let’s advertise the connected
network, let’s start with 10.10.10.0,
so network 10.10.10.0 mask 255.255.255.0,
Next let’s advertise the network that connected
to server, network 172.16.10.0 mask 255.255.255.0
Okay we have done on google router, next
let’s configure on ISP, router bgp 2,
and then let’s define the neighbor, in this case the
neighbor is google, so neighbor 10.10.10.1
remote-as 1. This is the ip address of google, and
this is the autonomous system number of google.
Next, let’s advertise the connected network,
network 10.10.10.0 mask 255.255.255.0,
we will also need to advertise the
network that connected to customer,
so network 10.20.20.0 mask 255.255.255.0
Okay now we have done configuring
bgp on google and ISP. For testing,
here we can see the routing table on ISP.
Do show ip route, here we can see that now
ISP have a route to go to the google server,
which is 172.16.10.0/24.
Let’s also check the routing
table on the google router,
do show ip route, here we can see that we also
have a route to go to the customer network,
which is 10.20.20.0/24.
Okay I think enough for this video, in the next
video, we are going to learn about the concept
of network address translation.
Thank you for watching and see you on the next video.